# allgemein.md

what is cms-kit?

cms-kit is a flexible and modular content management framework. While traditional content management systems have been developed to a specific purpose, and are, determined according to functionality and data structure, provides cms-kit, a completely open platform with which to create almost any data structure and can use. There, where the wheel will not always have to reinvent can be cms-kit simply extensions, expand Wizards and own templates.
cms-kit can be modeled

A core of cms-kit is the editor for data modeling. Here you can develop and edit your own database designs and import existing model templates. About the built-in generator, the model is then in the database 1 and in PHP classes for database abstraction of two written are responsible. The default backend of cms-kit automatically adapts to the data model so that you can start entering data immediately.

cms-kit data model supports:

    Relations: 1: m 3 and m: m 4 links
    Hierarchies: simple 5 and multidimensional 6 trees
    multiple databases 7
    different ID generation: Auto-Increment or function-based IDs (important for distributed data pools 8 )
    Generic models 

cms-kit is modular

The structure of cms-kit was chosen so that the most important areas of functioning independently of each other. For example, it is possible (eg on a production system) to operate the Web edition of a cms-kit-instance is complete without the backend. Also, administration areas, wizards, templates and extensions can be easily removed without the functionality of the other components suffers 9 . With the reduction of complexity can make the system more streamlined and secure.

An instance of cms-kit is able to manage any number of projects (cms-kit is so "multitenant"). About the folder structure in "projects /" the projects remain cleanly separated, can be easily mapped to different domains and can be easily moved, backed up, cloned, and removed again.
cms-kit is quick

About static classes generated redundant functions are generated for each data object. This eliminates at runtime (ie when speed is needed) the time-consuming of Execution path, the dynamic MVC mappers own is.
cms-kit is transparent

cms-kit is not a "black box" that hides its logic in nested libraries. The generated database classes can be 'read', understand and broaden course individually to their own methods.
cms-kit is expandable

Functions that extend the backend or the frontend functionality, can be packetized as Extensions, distribute and install. Such a system is clearly star within minutes. Based on the extensions is cms-kit expandable in almost any direction.

In the basic version is cms-kit not only "empty" (ie, does not bring any pre-made database entries) but also without seemingly important areas such as user management, data rollback, web edition, etc.. These are available as extensions and are therefore optional (for which you need such as a user management when the system is used as a personal data tool?).

The input content is additionally Wizards 10 support. About the available Wizards (calendar, file manager, WYSIWYG, WYSIWYM, code editor, etc.), the development & integration of custom wizards is easy.

Appearance and functionality of the backend can be determined with templates and change at runtime.

About the hook system 11 of cms-kit you can use content settings "under the hood" to further simplify and control.
cms-kit is easy

... so easy just how to make the data underlying structure. Whether for a blog system, a simple article management (plus any "tags") or is a variety of areas for complex management tasks depends solely on the individual project. cms-kit shows so that the users always only what is truly necessary for the task. For example, if the concept of entries and links as it provides even understood the default template, the backend without additional training is easy to use in new projects, as the structure in all projects is "ticking".

Using special templates can be from the backend alternatively, a highly customized system for specific tasks. Different areas can offer completely different masks for different tasks.

    About PDO supported in principle cms-kit a variety of database systems (MySQL, SQLite, Postgres, Firebird, Oracle, etc.). ↩

    The classes generated automatically encapsulate the main database access (CRUD + A). Thus, the process of development of your own applications can be accelerated considerably. ↩

    "One to many" - relationships allow a "child" assigning a maximum of one "parent element" ↩

    "Many to many" - relationships allow a "sibling" the assignment of any number of "sibling" of another region. ↩

    "Simple" trees in which a child is allowed to have at most one parent node, for example, are suitable for nested pages Trees and virtual directories. They are mapped into the database very efficiently using the nested set model. cms-kit supports this hierarchy type natively. ↩

    "Multidimensional" trees in which a child (branch) can depend on several parent nodes are suitable for eg ontologies. cms-kit realized this model effectively about "Closure Tables". ↩

    a cms-kit - instance can manage multiple databases. Thus, for example, backups, and user data store in separate databases and thus separate from the "real content". This is particularly important for distributed high-availability applications interesting (clustering, cloud storage). Even with the disclosure of records, the separation of system and work data is useful. ↩

    would be distributed datasets in parallel on multiple systems and made changes later merge again, a system with auto-increment IDs cause problems, as necessary, parallel data sets with the same IDs were inserted. Here the use of the ID generator cms kit is recommended. Typical applications would be offline databases on the computers of field staff or a guestbook application in a server cluster. ↩

    the functions of some Wizards are needed by other Komponenteten why this should not be deleted carelessly. Note there may be interactions is a file "doNotRemoveIf.txt" in the directory. ↩

    Wizards are independent modules that offer additional / more convenient management and editing functions. ↩

    Hooks are functions on actions in the backend "listen" and can manipulate data (before or after an action). Numerous backend extensions are built on the hook system. Own project-Hooks can be set up easily and register in the system. ↩ 
______________________________________________________________________________________________________

# backend.md

The default backend

The backend of cms-kit is a little different from the classical content management systems, as cms-kit does not specify in the data structure. Therefore, a display is required which is generalized sufficiently to map all models. Be created and loaded for specific tasks and models adapted interfaces.

The following is the default template is described below:

In principle, the default template works on the representation / management of content areas and linking with other areas.

In return, the backend is divided into a head and a three-column work area.

In the head region to find drop-down lists for the fields and optional domain filter, Wizards and the logout button.
List

In the left column, the entries in the selected range are displayed as a list or tree. Clicking on an item to open the content in the center column.

If multiple entries with Ctrl + click or "dragging" (lasso function as in paint programs) chosen are offered functions for editing the selected group.

Other functions can be found in the head of the list:

    Search: About the autosuggest search box on the left can be found entries and jump directly to
    Filter presets (if available) allow for fast filtering and display the list of entries to the conditions that have been stored in the selected filter preset (eg "show in the list, only the active posts in descending order according to news")
    Entry: (if available) with the button can create a new entry
    Browse: many entries are available in the area leaves buttons are shown, with which the list can be scrolled.
    Sort: By clicking the button can be sorted lists and trees and change the display.
        Lists:
        simple trees:
        Graph:
        The field labels also allows you to choose which content should be displayed in the list 
    Arranging (for hierarchies): here the formation of a hierarchy can be established 

Content
Input fields & Wizards

Depending on the data type entries are displayed differently. The input of content can also be supported through so-called wizards. Then place next to or below an input field, a button that opens the corresponding wizard in an overlay area. More information about Wizards are here to find.

Other functions:

    allows the entry displayed to select the link mode link with other elements is at the top of the content area of ​​a drop down field is applied in the new and existing links can be edited.
    if necessary, can the content link to a preview view. Then, a preview button is displayed. 

Relations

Can the selected item with elements of other areas link, all associated with the entry elements are displayed in the right column.

In link mode allows a "handle" arrow creating & solving shortcuts and sorting the linked elements by drag and drop. For linking elements are "linked" to the area drawn links are to be resolved, we simply subtract the corresponding entry down to the "available".

If the linked elements are sorted shifts they are simply "linked" in accordance within the range.

Other functions:

    Search: About the autosuggest search box on the right hand side of the area to verknüfende can browse and take the hit in the link.
    Browse: many elements are in the range to link sheets available buttons are shown, with which the list of available items can be scrolled. 

Tips

    The "handle" between the columns allows the adaptation of the individual column widths by dragging and dropping.
    If an entry is opened, the URL will be adjusted accordingly. This allows individual entries that are processed frequently also save / call via bookmark / bookmark.
    "Frontend Editing" (ie the ability of a Web View from jumping directly into the "edit mode") is of course easy to implement! Just in the front end put a link on the entry in the backend. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# modeling.md
Modeling
Introduction

About the modeling of data can specify how content is structured in the database are stored and which input masks cms-kit for the date holds.

cms-kit different database models and generic models which allow different per entry, customized data structures.
Database models

About creating database models can create the tables in the databases. In addition, automatically function libraries are generated which allow developers an easy and secure access to the database.

How this works is here described.
Generic models

Generic models are fully enclosed, externally loadable input templates that allow you to use in an entry different structures. Thus, an entry times be a text field, sometimes a quiz and even a WHATEVER. Per entry can be an appropriate structure is loaded and displayed in the backend. Instead of in the database fields as generic models of cms-kit are as JSON stored structure and add, once loaded in the backend the entry to additional input fields. For the user there is no difference between "real" database fields that are the same for all entries and fields that were precisely "generated" for this entry. This document-oriented approach, scenarios can be realized, in particular, of NoSQL are addressed.

The Administration is here described. 

---------------------------
Modeling of objects
Introduction
the main menu

    "New Object" creates a new object on the stage. In the popup window, first to a (unique) name must be entered. 1 is then the new object below the menu placed on the stage from where it can be dragged to the desired position.
    "Export" opens the dialog for editing and export of the model.
        "Rebuild from XML" loads the XML structure from the text box on the stage. This allows changes to be made directly on the model and (partial) models can be added by copy & paste.
        "Sort objects internally" opens a sortable list of objects. This allows the order of the Abeitsbereiche in the backend change.
        "Save XML Model" saves the model without it in the database and working model to convict. Thus, for between steps in the revision of the model hold without affecting the running operation.
        "Export XML Model" writes Finally, the model database and working model. Here, then, is from the model reality! In the downstream model processing the changes to the database (as SQL queries) and links are output to the generated / updated PHP classes. Automatically created backup copies of the database and the old models allow the restoration of accidentally overwriting content. 
    "Help" opens finally this Dokment ;-) 

Objects

An object is represented as a box in the data fields can be created 2 . Tooltips reveal the function of each icon.
Data fields

When creating a new object, a field named "id" is created automatically. This field is necessary to refer unambiguously entries in the system. It may / may not be renamed. The "id" field contains two icons that allow links to other objects (see "Relations").

Data fields can be created in the object using the symbol (+). This opens up a pop-up window where the field name must be entered. The field name must contain the object-as-no spaces or special characters and is written in lower case. If the name is subsequently changed (eg directly in XML) can lead to problems with existing data (since in principle a new field is assumed).
"Magical" field name in the backend

Some field names have for the backend of cms-kit 3 a specific meaning and should be chosen either wisely!

    "Id": fields ending with "id" are for database IDs there. This will not be displayed in the backend.
    "Sort": ends a field to "sort" is also expected from a system-internal value and hidden field.
    "C_": field names, where a "c_" prepended automatically encrypted using Blowfish! 4 This is especially useful when the data (database) is passed on to external organizations. The input field should be the Wizard "field password 'grades.
    "E_": Base64 content to a "e_" must be encoded to the field names are prefixed. 

Generic models

The field is assigned to a field of the file type "model" is interpreted as "Generic model". This entry per additional input fields can be defined. More generic models here .
Settings for fields

Fields provide the following settings
Languages

For output in the backend can be created for each language corresponding translations of the field name. Each translation begins with the country abbreviation followed by a colon and is written in a separate line.

Example of simple voice Labels:

 de:mein toller Bereich en:my great Section 

After selecting a language labels can be the form fields in addition accumulate and structure
Tabs and Akkordions

{Snips @ import / .tabs_accordions.md}
Tooltip popup and Placeholder

Should the field be given additional information such as tooltips, help texts in the popup window and how to enter, the label with a tooltip may 5 and Link are equipped to a help text and the input field with a placeholder [^ Placeholder].

    Tooltip: tooltip text in parentheses de: Field label (Tooltip text with HTML)
    Help text: path (starting from the end) to the help file in angle brackets de: Field label <pfad/auf/die/datei.md#optionaler_anker>
    Placeholder: Placeholder text in square brackets de: Field label [Placeholder text WITHOUT HTML] 

Data type

The data type may also specify which input box is drawn in the backend. Depending on the type, additional parameters in the following field "wizard" can be stored. If a wizard input field selected here may also specify a wizard. The call is automatically written to the underlying field "addition".
Filter

Here you can define a data filter such as

 FILTER_SANITIZE_EMAIL 

or

 FILTER_SANITIZE_SPECIAL_CHARS:FILTER_FLAG_STRIP_LOW 

more about filters: http://www.php.net/manual/en/filter.filters.sanitize.php

XSS protection in HTML output should be used in addition if required: http://htmlpurifier.org
Default Value

Here, a predetermined value for a new entry to be specified. If the value of the term "function:" prefix, the field is with the PHP function call is given here (examples can be found in the date fields).
Addition

Here you can additional parameters for a box store.

    Parameters for "data-" attributes with normal input fields (strings, numeric fields and text fields). Here, any information can be passed. Currently, the following attributes are considered in Javascript.
        mask: This attribute adds the field an input mask for a given input schema to. Read more here
        Sample input in addition field:
        mask: (999) 999-9999
        type: This attribute missed a different type (hopefully in IE ..) the field. HTML5 browser support (future) corresponding auxiliary functions. values
        Sample input in addition field:
        type: email 
    Parameters for invoking a wizard: This usually happens on the selection of Wizards of the drop and can be adapted here. (The large capitalized terms are placeholders below.)
        wizard: WIZARD_NAME
        param: ZUSÄTZLICHE_PARAMETER
        icon: icon_name
        label: LABEL_NAME 

By day

The specification of tags used to describe the field (this can be used eg to data structures automatically transferred to other systems).
Comment

A field for internal descriptions
Relations

Can be linked elements of different objects over relations. The link mode is active when you click on the "id" field. When linking two relations types can choose:

    a m: m relation (or sibling relation) allows two elements to link with as many elements of the other object. If a relation painted linked to the (green) connector, the two id fields. Read more here .
    a 1: m relationship (or parent-child relation) allows the dependent (child) element only one (parent) element of the other object to assign. Here, the additional field "parent object name id" (the name of the parent object + "id") is created in the child object automatically.
    Note: If an additional deposit is a field named "parent object name sort" (the name of the parent object + "sort") in the child object can be in the backend the Children Order from the parent element of! 

Meaning and purpose:

Let us use as a simple reference management before. This has the three objects "book", "author" and "publisher".

Exemplary modeling

    an author may have written several books and a book may have been written jointly by several authors. Here it is advisable to m: m relationship. In the modeling can be seen this relationship by the connecting line between the two ID fields.
    a book issued by a publisher. M relationship makes sense: So here is a 1. Here, "child object" a special ID field (parent name + id) is created automatically and placed in the connecting line of the field on the parent ID. 

About the encapsulation of information about objects and the linking of elements about relations can prevent that information must be entered twice. In addition, it can be seen on simple queries and views, what with whom related (eg "what books are published by a publishing house").
Object Properties
Database

A data model in cms-kit can distribute its objects multiple databases. The databases are created on the project setup and can be selected from the drop down.

The important thing is to objects are linked, they must be in the same database! Objects that have been assigned to a different database than the first are marked with a color code. Thus it can be seen whether there is an invalid link.
Increment

This allows to program the method to a new ID is generated for an entry. Typically, the database-internal autoincrement function is used (a new entry gets the next highest ID number). If data are distributed and merged later this may lead to collisions (there are identical IDs created). This can be prevented by timestamp-based IDs.
Language labels

For output in the backend ever appropriate language translations of the object name can create. Each translation begins with the country abbreviation followed by a colon and is written in a separate line.

Example:

 de:mein toller Bereich en:my great Section 

Hooks

About Hooks can be litigating pre-and post-processing of inputs, ensure data integrity of special objects and much more in the backend. Available Hooks can be transferred from the dropdown in the field below. If necessary. Here are parameters to supplement or adapt in square brackets.

Hook statements

    start with the information, whether they be called before (PRE) or after (PST) a backend event
    followed by a colon,
    the function name
    and, if separated from one another colon a list of parameters (comma separated) 

Example:

 PRE:ccopy:goOnline,draftField,outputField PRE:rollback 

Wizard URLs

About Wizard URL can be in the backend to a global area (ie not an entry-bound) Wizards and information pages offer. The Wizards can be accessed via the drop "user Wizards". In the URL itself also can add special placeholders that are automatically overwritten with the current values ​​in the backend (in principle here any global javascript variable is available).

a selection:

    % Projectname% of the current project name
    %% Objectname is the name of the active object / area
    % ObjectId% the ID of the entry currently shown.
    % Long% backend language
    % UserId% User ID 

Example

 http://meine-webseite.com/doku/howto_create_content_%lang%.html 

is in German language setting

 http://meine-webseite.com/doku/howto_create_content_de.html 

GET-parameters are of course also translated (for dynamic content)

 extensions/bla/wizard1/?project=%projectName%&lang=%lang%

The available javascript variables in the backend can be on this bookmarklet read (Save as bookmark and call the open end).

getGlobalVars
Preview URLs

Target of an entry out a preview to be called, can specify that here. A preview URL works much like a wizard-URL with the difference that the call is placed on a button in the entry. in the URL should be deposited% objectId% of at least the field.
Hierarchy Type

Normally entries of an object are stored as non-hierarchical list that can be scrolled and sorted. With the Hierarchy Type dialog, decide whether the entries are hierarchically structured.

If elements are placed in a hierarchical structure, one defines the object as a tree or graph.

"Tree"

The tree hierarchy allows a child node only one parent. This type of hierarchy is suitable eg for Forums or side trees. Internally, this hierarchy utilizes the nested set model .

"Graph"

The graph hierarchy allows a child element (including its children) to hang on multiple parent elements. This hierarchy type is suitable eg for ontologies (category systems). Internally, this hierarchy utilizes a Transitive Closure table .

Image examples: http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_ (graph theory) (Copyright: CC-by-sa-3.0 )
By day

Tags are used in the backend to simple filtering of areas. Thus, for example, only areas in the selection show, have the administrative functions or create groups to manage product groups. Tags are logically also displayed by language (an English user will want to see any German tags). Each day begins with the country abbreviation followed by a colon and is written in a separate line.

Example:

 de:Administration en:Admin-Objects 

Comment

Here you can define an internal comment.
Notes

    A coherent data model is performs well in general in both the input as well as comfortable in output!
    Are exotic or highly "normalized" data models is desired, it is advisable to define a corresponding structures on auxiliary objects and hooks.
    Even more elegant that goes depending on the database via stored procedures / triggers, but these are database specific to apply.
    Traditional database models use the auto-increment mechanism for generating IDs. Should be used in parallel and distributed databases merged data from it is that a potential problem, since the same IDs are generated at different locations when creating content. cms-kit supports as an alternative method to generate unique IDs based on the current timestamp in microseconds (plus a random number). 

cms-kit saves the editable data models as an XML structure. The most current XML model can be found in the project directory in the file "objects / __modelxml.php".

If a model is exported to the working model, there is the structure in JSON format. It is found in the file "objects / __model.php".

    Objects whose name shall begin with an underscore as a system internally (this has no technical reason). ↩

    The boxes can be arranged and drop it onto the stage drag. Several boxes can be marked by Shift + click and move as a group. ↩

    the functions of Magical Field names are not stored in the database classes and are thus not automatically apply to your own applications available! ↩

    The field can thus no longer has internal site search search search! ↩

    A tooltip is a little info bubble that appears when the mouse moves over the label. the label itself is displayed in italics. [^ Placeholder]: A placeholder is an information text that appears in the empty box. ↩ 

--------------------------

Generic models
important information

Generic models have some limitations due to the system and should be used with care!

    Since generic models are embedded in an entry can not define links to other entries! These must be described as before in the database models. Likewise hooks can not be directly applied to generic fields.
    The fields in the generic models are not shown in the relational database and therefore can not be directly used as filter criteria in an SQL statement! Content can be at most of the search string (eg, a LIKE query) can find or should be duplicated in a "shadow table" (see below).
    Fields in the generic models are also non-database are tested for their integrity, since the whole model is stored as a large text. Depending on the operation Generic models are slower than database models. 

Administration

About the editor for generic models can be-as in the editor for the database models also models and fields create, arrange and edit. Updates to the model are the entries based on the model transfer 1 .
Edit Fields

If a model is selected, the fields are displayed as sortable list in the main area. About the pencil icon, the properties of the field work:
Languages

For output in the backend can be created for each language corresponding translations of the field name. Each translation begins with the country abbreviation followed by a colon and is written in a separate line.

Example of simple voice Labels:

	de : mein toller Bereich
	en : my great Section 

After selecting a language labels can be the form fields in addition accumulate and structure
Tabs and Akkordions

{Snips @ import / .tabs_accordions.md}
Tooltip and Placeholder

Should the field be given additional information such as tooltips, help texts in the popup window and how to enter, the label with a tooltip can 2 and link are provided to help text and the input field with a placeholder [^ Placeholder].

    Tooltip: tooltip text in parentheses de: Field label (Tooltip text with HTML)
    Help text: path (starting from the end) to the help file in angle brackets de: Field label <pfad/auf/die/datei.md#optionaler_anker>
    Placeholder: Placeholder text in square brackets de: Field label [Placeholder text WITHOUT HTML] 

Data type

The data type may also specify which input box is drawn in the backend. Depending on the type, additional parameters in the following field "wizard" can be stored. If a wizard input field selected here may also specify a wizard. The call is automatically written to the underlying field "addition".
Default Value

Here, a predetermined value for a new entry to be specified.
Addition

Here you can additional parameters for a box store.

    Parameters for "data-" attributes with normal input fields (strings, numeric fields and text fields). Here, any information can be passed. Currently, the following attributes are considered in Javascript.
        mask: This attribute adds the field an input mask for a given input schema to. Read more here
        Sample input in addition field:
        mask: (999) 999-9999
        type: This attribute missed a different type (hopefully in IE ..) the field. HTML5 browser support (future) corresponding auxiliary functions. values
        Sample input in addition field:
        type: email 
    Parameters for invoking a wizard: This usually happens on the selection of Wizards of the drop and can be adapted here. (The large capitalized terms are placeholders below.)
        wizard: WIZARD_NAME
        param: ZUSÄTZLICHE_PARAMETER
        icon: icon_name
        label: LABEL_NAME 

By day

The specification of tags used to describe the field (this can be used eg to data structures automatically transferred to other systems).
Comment

A field for internal descriptions. This is helpful for others to understand what you wanted with the structure.
Operate on the code level

Note: Only for experts!

Click on the button: "View Code", the JSON data structure be viewed, copied and edited directly.

    the button "load JSON" accepts the edited / pasted JSON as a model
    the button "save JSON (no DB update)" only saves the model without the entries based on it to update. This is useful for "open heart surgery" and can lead to inconsistencies in following updates because entries are adjusted due to the last difference!
    on the button "Replace DB model string" the model can be in the database entries by string replacement correct. 

In the JSON files in the project directory under "objects / generic /" are then the models described above.
Implementations

A field of type Generic model requires a stored JSON structure. In principle, there is of course to load a JSON in the database field, different conditions and possibilities.

    How: Usually in such a hook is to be used, it could of course also external programs or database routines for initializing / updating care.
    When: Events such as the Vernküpfen with another area, the application by a (n) User (in) with specific roles and other conditions of the trigger for the establishment of an appropriately fitted model can be. 

The following is the manual handling of generic models is described below:

In order not to enter every time the JSON model by hand and at the same time must be able to offer a fixed set of generic models can fill the model via a selection box with an external content. For this, there is already a corresponding hook named "load generic model"

We need this 3 fields

    Selection field for paths leading to external sites (type SELVARCHAR) with the seed word "select"
    Flag field indicating (if and) what is currently loaded (VARCHAR), the
    Generic model field (type MODEL) 

also we need the Hook "prefill 'and can be as a field from an external file is to be filled.

Example:

 PRE:loadGenericModel:feldnameselect,feldname,feldnameflag 

Development

(Previously only keywords!)

    [NAME] (type MODEL)
    [NAME] select (type SELVARCHAR)
    [NAME] flag (VARCHAR) 

Shadow object

[OBJECT NAME] shadow

Fields

    [OBJECT NAME] id (1: n relation)
    name (String)
    value (text or blob) 

    this operation is computationally expensive and accordingly should not be in too many entries that are based on the model, made ​​wherever possible. ↩

    A tooltip is a little info bubble that appears when the mouse moves over the label. the label itself is displayed in italics. [^ Placeholder]: A placeholder is an information text that appears in the empty box. ↩ 

--------------------------------------------------------------------
# Extensions

Extensions

The functionality of cms-kit can be easily extended via so-called Extensions.
Generally

An extension is essentially a package of files that is stored in a special directory. If PHP functions (sub) templates, CSS files, configuration scripts and / or just documentation to be delivered as a package and used to their bundling is recommended as an extension. Extensions are delivered as ZIP files (create your own extensions with "standard tools" is thus, in principle, no problem, see here )

About the extension manager extensions can be upload by admins, view, edit and import them into the live system.

There are two types of extensions.
Global Extensions

Path: backend / extensions / [extension name] /

Global Extensions are available to all projects within the cms-kit installation. You therefore do not contain project-specific settings (and should not be edited in the Multi-Admin environments - that the file permissions are set accordingly). The upload of new extensions in the global extension directory is permitted only Super Admins!
Project Extensions

Path: projects / [project name] / extensions / [extension name] /

Project Extensions can be used only within the respective project. You can also upload of Project Admins (Users with root status).

With the limited scope to project extensions are particularly suitable for applications in the frontend that require project-specific configurations and customizations.
special Extensions

There are (currently) two specific extensions that are functionally "anchored" particularly in the backend:

user

cms-kit can be used (as Super Admin) without the user management. The user management is firmly anchored to a query in the login area and some buttons in the backend.

all

In order to execute hooks as the extension directories is attempted the PHP files

 backend/extensions/all/hooks.php 

and

 projects/[Projektname]/extensions/all/hooks.php 

integrate.

Of the corresponding hook is executed only when the corresponding function is present also. So please import and test!
the menu

In the first drop down menu, you can switch between the Global-, project extensions and the Wizards.

By choosing an area whose available / viewable documentation, scripts and configuration files are listed. Depending on the write permission, documents, configurations, and files on Editors edit directly.

If an extension / a Wizard chosen 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

cms-kit: Security

The following describes the security concepts of cms-kit and options are plucked implement them.
System Architecture
Modularity

cms-kit is built strictly modular.

    The front end output is completely independent from the backend. A web output, which can be reached via the Internet, for example, can be at the request of the administrative level physically decouple by the backend kept on a different server (for example, in an intranet environment) and mirrored the data to the / public server be. This is also recommended for high traffic sites (web output via load balancing).
    Data can be distributed across multiple databases. For example, no user data is needed for the decoupled Web output on a separate web server, which in the case of a break-even can not be captured then.
    The backend requires none of the administration modules (depending on the requirements these can be removed individually or zuladen).
    Also, extensions and wizards are lad and removed as needed. 

Database abstraction

    Access to the database via the database abstraction layer of the automatically generated PHP classes. These encapsulate database queries into so-called prepared statements and thus prevent entries via SQL injection to compromise the database. Thus, the access to the database is standardized, test and comprehensible.
    Since the database classes only a few dependencies 1 have, they are easy to understand 2 and use. 

own measures

"Security" is not an absolute fixed salary but on the respective application dependent.
cms-kit as a personal data management tool

If cms-kit used locally on the home server or on an intranet, it needs accordingly little or no security measures in the CMS (your own computer should be backed up of course ;-)).

When data is passed or are possibly not sufficiently protected against loss (eg local cms-kit instances on your laptop or smartphone) can also be encrypted sensitive data fields 3 . The passwords used to encrypt the data fields should be here only temporarily available (that need to be set again after each login). This method also allows to make individual fields of a record only to duly authorized users only.

    An ORM class ("objects / class. [Object_name]. Php ') requires only the class" objects / __database.php "which in turn" objects / __configuration.php "includiert. ↩

    Vulnerabilities in large extensions frameworks are usually the Duch own, insufficient implemented database access. These "shortcuts" are often chosen because of inadequate knowledge of the available APIs. ↩

    another method at the operating system level is of course the encryption of the entire hard drive or certain directories. With appropriate extensions can also encrypt databases separately. ↩ 
